---
title: Jennifer Lim
role: Pianist
photo: true
guest_artist: true
---

Having started to play the piano before the age of 5, Korean Canadian pianist Jennifer Lim made her first public appearance one year later and came into spotlight when she captured the Grand Prize at the Korea Times National Music Competition at age 8. She studied privately with Jane Coop and Anton Kuerti in Canada and with Peter Serkin at The Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia where she was awarded the coveted Rachmaninoff/Festorazzi Prize upon graduation in 1998. In 2000 she completed her master’s degree at The Juilliard School in New York City as a protégée of the legendary pianist Bella Davidovich, then made her European recital debut at Burghofspiele Eltville Festival in Germany in 2001, which was followed 2 months later by her New York Debut at Weill Recital Hall at Carnegie Hall both to critical acclaim.

Praised by The Financial Times, Germany for her “stupendous finger technique in break-neck passages, and, in the slow movement, deeply penetrating substance”, highlights as concerto soloist included Rachmaninoff #3 with the Mississippi Symphony, engagements with the Columbus Symphony, New Haven Symphony, Regina Symphony, Vancouver Symphony, EuroAsian Philharmonic at the National Theater in Seoul, Roanoke Symphony, State Philharmonic Orchestra of Arad in Romania, Montreal’s McGill Chamber Orchestra and Lima Symphony in their Season Opening Gala. Over the years in Germany alone she has performed in Berlin, Cologne, Dusseldorf, Freiburg and Wuppertal, with broadcasts on Deutschlandfunk. In 2006 “Through the Glass Darkly” for solo piano was specially written for Jennifer Lim by Christos Hatzis which was featured on a 6-city Debut Atlantic Tour.

An avid chamber musician as well, she has performed at Alice Tully Hall at Lincoln Center, National Gallery of Canada in Ottawa, Wolf Trap in Virginia as well as France and Taiwan, is artist member of America's Dream Chamber Artists, NYC and released a duo disc with Nokuthula Ngwenyama on EDI. Ms. Lim is the artistic director of the annual Vancouver Winter Chamber Music Festival which celebrated its 5th anniversary with a gala concert in November 2013 working in partnership with CBC Radio. Notable artists she has performed with include Shmuel Ashkenasi, Peter Wiley, Katherine Needleman, Alexander Fiterstein and the world-renowned Prazak Quartet whom she had the pleasure of appearing in Germany with in one of Europe's oldest running concert series, Albert Konzerte in 2012: Ms. Lim was immediately invited back to give a solo recital on the series in 2014.

Her all-Chopin debut CD, recorded when she was 24, was released on Greenhouse/Schott International label, receiving rave reviews from such distinguished publications as Fono Forum (5 out of 5 stars), Audiophile, SCALA and Piano News. This CD was the subject of a Chopin Special on the Bayerischer Rundfunk, praising Ms. Lim as “the only young artist who can play Chopin... with the greats such as Argerich, Pogorelich, Michelangeli and Kapell”. Currently she has 5 CDs commercially released to her credit, including a disc featuring the monumental Goldberg Variations on the Italian Real Sound label. Ms. Lim is anticipating the release of 2 new CDs in 2015.

Jennifer Lim resides in New York City, USA and London, England with her husband, David.